---
title: Installation 
description: How to install and use the hexo-theme-solitude theme.
icon: lucide:play
---

## Install Hexo

If you haven't installed Hexo yet, please install it first. You can refer to the [Hexo official documentation](https://hexo.io/docs/index.html) for installation instructions.

## Install the Theme

::steps

### CD into the Project Directory

```bash
cd [project-name]
```

### Install the Theme

There are numerous ways to install the theme—simply choose the method you prefer. If you find these instructions unclear, using the first method by default is recommended.

1. Install Using Git 

```bash
git clone -b dev https://github.com/everfu/hexo-theme-solitude.git themes/solitude
```

2. Manual Installation via Theme Files

Download the latest [release](https://github.com/everfu/hexo-theme-solitude/releases) version. Unzip it into the `themes` directory, then rename the extracted folder to `solitude`

#### File Structure Reference
::file-tree
---
tree:
  - Blog Directory:
    - themes:
      - solitude:
---
::

3. Install Using Package Manager

:pm-install{name="hexo-theme-solitude"}


### Configure the Theme

Edit the `_config.yml` file in your Hexo project and add the following content:

```yaml
theme: solitude
```

### Install Dependencies

:pm-install{name="hexo-renderer-pug"}

### Start Hexo Locally

Run the following commands:

```bash
hexo clean
```

```bash
hexo generate
```

```bash
hexo server
```

::alert{type="success" icon="lucide:circle-check"}
Visit http://localhost:4000 to view your blog.
::

:read-more{to="/configuration/basic-useage" title="Configure the Theme" icon="lucide:settings" target="_self"}

## Copy Theme Configuration to Blog Root Directory (Optional)

To minimize inconvenience after theme upgrades, you can copy the contents of the `_config.yml` file from the theme directory to your blog's root directory and rename it to `_config.solitude.yml`.

#### NPM Installation

::code-group
```bash [Mac/Linux]
cp -rf ./node_modules/hexo-theme-solitude/_config.yml ./_config.solitude.yml
```
```bash [Windows]
copy .\node_modules\hexo-theme-solitude\_config.yml .\_config.solitude.yml
```
::

#### Git Installation

::code-group
```bash [Mac/Linux]
cp -rf ./themes/solitude/_config.yml ./_config.solitude.yml
```
```bash [Windows]
copy .\themes\solitude\_config.yml .\_config.solitude.yml
```
::

The configuration in `_config.solitude.yml` in your blog's root directory takes precedence over the `_config.yml` file in the theme directory. If you use `_config.solitude.yml`, corresponding configurations in the theme's `_config.yml` will not take effect.

When updating the theme, remember to check if the configuration file has changed. Release notes typically highlight changes or provide a diff comparison of configuration file versions. Simply synchronize these changes to your configuration file.

::alert{type="danger" icon="lucide:circle-x"}
Note:
You are copying the theme's `_config.yml`, not Hexo's `_config.yml`.
Do not delete the `_config.yml` file in the theme directory.
::

#### File Structure Reference
::file-tree
---
tree:
  - Blog Directory:
    - themes:
      - solitude:
        - _config.yml     
  - _config.solitude.yml
---
::

::